# BottleCoin
###### Ben Hodgson, Jerry Wang, Surabhi Gupta, Peter Thao

A proof-of-concept application to demonstrate a tokenized model on the Ethereum network that rewards participants in the life cycle of a plastic bottle for recycling.

## Market Analysis 
The world population and level of consumption continues to grow. This growth far outpaces the degradation rate of most plastics and other recyclable packaging materials and poses a significant threat to the planet. Blockchain technology provides a great platform for incentivizing both consumers and producers to recycle through a tokenized packaging material distribution and collection system. Many recycling facilities already implement monetary incentives, but the reward is often not significant enough to motivate individuals to transport and deposit their own materials. 

Our model seeks to capture the market for environmentally conscious individuals that do not have enough incentive to recycle religiously and reward individuals that already participate in a recycling service. The current reward-driven recycling market is also largely dominated by companies that try to incentivize institutions rather than individuals. For example, the former company Green Fiber partnered with businesses and processed paper waste. A business signed a contract with the company guaranteeing to recycle a certain amount of paper in pounds to receive a recycle bin on site. The business is then paid based upon how much paper waste they recycle. This recycling model is great from the perspective of participating institutions, but what if the incentivization process could be extended to individuals? Individual reward mechanisms are excellent motivators and, with the right technologies, can work well to increase recycling rates. The recycling market in its current state does an ineffective job incentivizing individuals to recycle their own recyclable waste, and that's why BottleCoin is a concept worthy of investigation.

## Our Model
Us → Businesses → Consumers → Recyclers → Recycling Facilities → Rewards/Incentives

Our solution incentivizes both companies and consumers to recycle common packaging materials through the reward of tokens. As is widely known, recycling has become a very common practice of reducing the amount of waste that ends up in landfills and the environment. By strongly incentivizing recycling on multiple stages of the material economy, rather than simply promoting it as is often the case now, we hope to see a significant rise in this practice.

Our company manufactures and sells packaging materials for companies to use with their products. Specifically, we propose initially selling plastic bottles to beverage manufacturers. Along with a predetermined set price of purchase is a deposit amount. Each package will include a printed QR code that allows it to be traced back to both our company, the producers who use it, and the individuals that purchase and recycle the bottle. When this product is returned to a recycling location and scanned again, the individuals are automatically rewarded with tokens from the bottle's token deposits. 

We plan to start on a smaller scale, primarily focusing on companies such as water and soda bottlers, because these products are uniform enough and common enough to be returned in smaller locations, such as recycling “vending machines” located at participating locations. The idea is that an individual can place the bottle in the machine, where it is then scanned and stored until one of our recycling partners recycles it. Vending machines, or, more acurately, reverse vending machines, remove the need for the individual consumer to participate in a recycling service. In an ideal world, these machines would slowly become as ubiquitous as trash cans along the streets and offer an equally accessible alternative to traditional trash disposal. This model will require marketing to convince producers to agree, however by stressing the moral appeal of recycling and the ease of our model, we expect companies and customers will be largely convinced.

